# Project-Data-Lake-with-Spark
Project to develop Data Lake using Spark 

**
  Project Description :
**  
    Task and responsibility for developing a data lake for the analytics team at Sparkify.
    After considerable growth in user base and song database it was time to move the data warehouse to a data lake and enhance data processing through Spark.
   
** 
  Project Objectives
**
  The primary file in this repo is the etl.py, which will read in files from S3 buckets, process them using Spark and store them as parquet files in S3 buckets, partitioned appropriately.

**
  Available Data
**
  Song Dataset:-
    The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
    
  Log Dataset :
     The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.
     
End-Results :-
  - Building out an ETL pipeline using Spark, Python, Hadoop Clusters (EMR).
  - Setting up IAM Roles, Hadoop Clusters, EMR, Config files and security groups.
  - Scaling up the data analysis process through the use of a data lake and Spark, in order to further optimize queries on song play analysis
  
Main Script :
  - etl.py
  - Jupyter Notebook :- spark_datalakes.ipynb
  
